# namma_app_shiny

R Shiny has become increasingly popular among R users for developing flexible and interactive platforms. The Shiny app we present here is for visualising data collected using mobile measurements (sensors on a moving platform). We used this app for visualising the data collected on air pollutants like PM2.5, Black Carbon and Ultrafine particles, with portable instruments (which are capable of providing high temporal resolution output, for instance, 1 Hertz data) mounted in a CNG-fuelled car. The mobile air pollution monitoring campaign is carried out in select neighbourhoods in Bengaluru city. The individual pollutant files are merged with the GPS data obtained.The resulting files can be easily accessed through the app and used to visualise the data. With the click of a button, the app generates: summary statistics, time series plots and spatial map of pollutant concentrations. Mapping parameters (pollutants) can be selected from a drop-down menu.
One of the challenges this app addresses is that of managing high frequency data (~1 hertz) generated using a mobile platform. The app allows team members to easily access data from the storage location and visualise the data in near-real time, without requiring knowledge in R. The app reduces the time consumed for analysing each pollutant individually. It helps check the quality of the data at near real time and instantly visualise pollution hot spots. The time series plots of each pollutant help understand the temporal patterns and health of the instruments. This app will help air pollution researchers and amateurs interested in conducting individual mobile experiments using portable air-quality sensors, which are easily available in the market, and to obtain high-quality data.
A shiny app to analyse mobile monitoring data for air quality research.
A simple app to integrate all data correction methods and to give a single output file of the mobile monitoring air quality data. The link to the app hosted on shinyapps.io is: https://nammaappairquality.shinyapps.io/ilkconsultancy/.
